FGAP documentation (#38422)
keycloak/keycloak: docs/documentation/upgrading/topics/changes/changes-26_2_0.adoc

Currently, it is not supported to request offline tokens or exchange a refresh token when the subject token was issued from an offline session. The recommended approach is to exchange for access tokens instead of
refresh token when possible.

> === Supported Fine-Grained Admin Permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Fine-grained admin permissions supported
```

> Starting with this release, {project_name} introduces **Fine-Grained Admin Permissions V2**, offering an improved and more flexible authorization model for administrative permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, {project_name} introduces *fine-grained admin permissions V2*, offering an improved and more flexible authorization model for administrative permissions.
```

Currently, it is not supported to request offline tokens or exchange a refresh token when the subject token was issued from an offline session. The recommended approach is to exchange for access tokens instead of
refresh token when possible.

=== Supported Fine-Grained Admin Permissions

Starting with this release, {project_name} introduces **Fine-Grained Admin Permissions V2**, offering an improved and more flexible authorization model for administrative permissions.

* FGAP:V2 feature is enabled by default.
* FGAP:V1 feature remains in preview and can be enabled using `--features=admin-fine-grained-authz:v1`. However, V1 may be deprecated and removed in a future releases.

==== Migration from V1 to V2

Due to fundamental changes in the permission model, **automatic migration from V1 to V2 is not available**. To simplify the transition:

> * A new `admin-permissions` client has been introduced (it is created automatically upon enabling the capability for the realm), which holds the authorization model for FGAP:V2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A new `admin-permissions` client is introduced. This client is created when you enable the capability for the realm. The client holds the authorization model for FGAP:V2.
```

* The existing FGAP:V1 authorization model remains unchanged within the `realm-management` client.

> * Administrators must **recreate permissions and policies** using the new model, which can be configured in the updated **`Permissions`** section of the Admin Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Administrators must **recreate permissions and policies** using the new model, which can be configured in the updated *Permissions* section of the Admin Console.
```

==== Key Differences Between FGAP:V1 and FGAP:V2

> * Realm-level enablement: 
>   ** FGAP:V2 can be enabled per realm using the new **`Admin Permissions`** switch in **`Realm Settings`**.
> * Centralized management:
>   ** The resource-specific "Permissions" tabs (for users, groups, clients, and roles) have been removed.
>   ** A new `Permissions`section provides centralized management for all administrative permissions from a single place in the Admin Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Realm-level enablement: 
  ** FGAP:V2 can be enabled for a realm using the new *Admin Permissions* switch in *Realm Settings*.
* Centralized management:
  ** The resource-specific *Permissions* tabs (for users, groups, clients, and roles) have been removed.
  ** A new *Permissions* section provides centralized management for all administrative permissions from a single place in the Admin Console.
```

* Explicit operation scoping:
  ** Transitive dependencies between permissions have been removed.
  ** Administrators must now explicitly assign each required permission.
  ** Example: To both `view` and `manage` a resource, both `view` and `manage` scopes for a permissions must be assigned separately.
* Permission model changes:

>   ** The `user-impersonated` user permission has been **removed** and replaced with the new **`impersonate-members`** scope for groups.

Reviewer 2: @vramik Can you keep in docs only what we have today? Documentation for new scopes should be done by their corresponding PRs.

>   ** The `user-impersonated` user permission has been **removed** and replaced with the new **`impersonate-members`** scope for groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** The *user-impersonated* user permission has been _removed_ and replaced with the new *impersonate-members* scope for groups.
```

>   ** The `configure` client permission has been removed. More fine-grained scopes are planned for future improvements.

Reviewer 2: @vramik Can you keep in docs only what we have today? Documentation for updating scopes should be done by their corresponding PRs.

>   ** The `configure` client permission has been removed. More fine-grained scopes are planned for future improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** The *configure* client permission has been removed. More fine-grained scopes are planned for future improvements.
```

>   ** The `configure` client permission has been removed. More fine-grained scopes are planned for future improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  ** The *configure* client permission has been removed. More fine-grained scopes are planned for future improvements.
```

> * Flexible resource scoping:
>   ** Unlike V1, where permissions were granted either to **a single resource** (for `clients`, `groups`, and `roles`) or **all resources** (for `users`), V2 introduces greater flexibility.
>   ** Administrators can now define permissions for:
>     *** A **specific resource**
>     *** A **set of selected resources**
>     *** **All resources** of a given type
>     *** This applies to **all resource types**: `clients`, `users`, `groups`, and `roles`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Flexible resource scoping:
  ** Unlike V1, where permissions were granted either to *a single resource* (for clients, groups, and roles) or **all resources** (for users), V2 introduces greater flexibility.
  ** Administrators can now define permissions for:
    *** A *specific resource*
    *** A *set of selected resources*
    *** *All resources* of a given type
    *** This applies to *all resource types*: clients, users,groups, and roles.
```
